Let's begin creating our first keyframes to move the Mac down into place for something like this I'd
like to begin with the end.
In other words I want to keyframe the MEK back here somewhere on the timeline and then also keyframe
the mech at its beginning point.
So I know I want to end here.
That's not a question and I'm thinking that and this is just a guess at this time.
I'm thinking that the Meck will take about eight seconds to come down through the hole in the ceiling
and land on the ground.
It will then kind of take a look around maybe take a step or two and then the scene will end.
So I'm thinking maybe eight or nine seconds to get down into the room.
So I'll come maybe to frame 200 here once again this is just a guess and we can adjust the timing at
any point.
I'll select that Master Control which is somewhere around it.
You're going to have to press the Z key to get to that.
So I'll select that and I'll hit the Z key again to come back out of wireframe.
So now that that's selected I want to insert a key frame at that point so to do that I'm going to press
the key and I'm going to insert a key frame for the location of the Mac the X Y and Z of its location.
So I click that and notice what it does.
It creates a key frame over here and it also puts a key frame here on the graph editor at frame 200.
All right.
So let's go back to frame zero now and I'm going to zoom out and I want to move the mech now up to where
I think he should be at the beginning of the animation so I'm using that master control to move him
around move all of the control objects around at once.
So knowing full well that we can adjust this at any point in time I'm going to go ahead and set it keyframe
here now.
So I'll press the key and location.
So you can see now that I've got two key frames here.
One at frame one and one at frame 200.
I've got two frames in here.
He open this up just a little bit more here.
I've got one key frame at frame 1 and one at 200 and you can see it's created this kind of smooth curve
between the two.
Keyframes So let me just press control up arrow here and make this full screen.
And if we roll the master control down here we can see we've got X Y and Z and you can see by the color
that this curve is the curve of the y axis.
This is the curve of the Z and The X is in here because I didn't move it at all in the X the X at frame
1 is zero and the X at frame 200 is 0 as well.
So I'll go ahead and press control up here again to make that screen smaller again.
And now if we hit play let's see what happens.
So you can see it's moving down in the seen down from above the ceiling down to the floor.
Now it's moving pretty slow.
You can see here that the frames per second is only around 10 or 12.
I'd really like to see this more at 24 frames per second.
So I'll go ahead and hit pause here.
And if I click and drag on this cursor in the timeline I can click and drag it back and forth and you
can see the map coming down into place.
So as I'm playing the scene you can see that the frame rate is hovering around 14 or 15 or actually
10 or 12 as the comes down into the scene and that's being caused by a couple of things.
One I think the main reason is that there are just so many polygons in the scene and there are so many
polygons in the scene because we've got the multi resolution modifier on quite a few of the objects.
So what I'd like to do is remove the or at least turn off the multi resolution modifier on many of the
objects while we're animating.
So a couple of them.
One is this floor here.
So if I select the floor I'm going to turn on the Select ability here.
Select the floor.
And if I go to my multi resolution modifier I can turn that off with the I button here I can do the
same thing for the ceiling.
I'll scroll back up and turn that back on for just a moment click that and turn the multi resolution
modifier off there.
Let's go back and see how we're doing on the frames per second.
Now click the play button and now we're up to like 18 13.
So let's take a look at the mech.
Now let me move up here and I'll zoom in to this guy.
So for the Mac we've got quite a few pieces that have the multi resolution modifier on them.
The fingers don't so we don't have to worry about that.
But if I roll out to the armature item in the outliner if I click on the plus there you can see that
all of the objects are underneath the armature that everything's printed to it.
So let's scroll down and for the arms we could select the arms and and disable that modifier so I'll
kick the.
And we'll do that for these.
It looks like one of my arms is not named properly.
It looks like the left lower arm needs to be re named.
I'll work on that here in a minute.
If we scroll down below the fingers we can see that maybe the feet we could disable the multi resolution
modifier for those.
Maybe the hands
and I'm going to have to go back and turn these back on before we render the scene.
But just to clean up the viewport here so are frames per second is a little bit closer to 24 frames.
I'll do the same for the legs and the mech body.
All right.
So let's go back into our scene here and let's hit the play button and see how this works.
So come down in here and hit play.
And it looks like we're getting a pretty solid 24 frames per second now.
So that's just going to help us figure out the timing as we're animating.
So let's place a keyframe in the middle of these two keyframe.
So if I hit the play button I'm going to let them come down here and maybe what I'm thinking is that
instead of coming down in a straight line like that that kind of drops down into the scene hovers for
a minute moves and then drops in the center of the grid.
So instead of coming down at an angle like that I'm going to take this and move it over a bit so it's
straight down below the hole.
And then insert a key frame here with the key and location.
And you can see here in the graph editor that it's created a new key frame right there at frame 122.
So I'll go back to the beginning hit the play and let's see what happens here.
So now he comes down like this to here and then moves forward like that.
All right.
So instead of coming at an angle from here to here I think at this point I'd like him to be hovering
right over that hole.
So I'll move him forward.
And insert a key frame here with the Ickey.
And now let's go back and play that comes forward.
Then he comes down into the hall and then he moves forward a bit like that.
All right.
So I think I'd like him to instead of coming at an angle from here to here.
I'd like him to move forward in the y axis between here and here.
So I think something like let's move him forward.
And then up a bit.
All right.
So now we've got four key frames we can see them here.
I'll go back to the beginning.
Hit play and now he moves forward and then drops down through the hole.
And moves forward again and then drops down.
So notice now that it didn't create a keyframe here.
I didn't hit the key to create a key frame so I'll move this forward again.
And what I'd have to do is then drag this into place again and hit the Ickey.
But I don't always remember that.
So Blendr has a nice little feature here and every 3D animation program has this.
I'm going to turn on auto keyframe.
So every time I make a change to the animation to the animated objects here it will insert a key frame
for me.
So I'm going to turn that on and now if I bring this down to about where I want it to hover like this
I'll bring it down to 160 say now I'm going to move it forward and back up again and look at what's
happening.
It's creating keyframes automatically every time I make a change.
So now let's go back hit the play.
So now he drops down to the whole moves forward a bit and then drops down like that.
Now the timing I think is pretty slow and floaty.
There's not a lot of speed change or differentiation in the movements here.
So let's begin adjusting our timing and to do that.
I'm going to use the dope sheet up here so if I go back to the beginning again and hit play coming down
to the scene that's not bad.
I don't mind that although I think it could happen a little bit quicker.
So maybe I'd like to get to this keyframe to this point a little bit quicker in the animation so I can
select this keyframe here and then I'm going to press the G key and just move it back on the timeline.
So maybe he comes down to that point by frame one hundred instead of frame 122.
All right.
So I've moved it back there.
Let's play that and see how it works.
He comes down.
He drops down into the room and then he begins moving forward like that.
And then he drops down right now when he comes down here to this point I'd kind of like him to come
up a bit before he drops down.
So at frame 80 I'm going to take him up just a little bit like this and maybe over here.
At one hundred I'll take him down just a bit.
See how that works.
So if I hit play he comes down into the scene
moves forward and then drops down.
And I'm thinking maybe he turns off his thrusters to make that drop.
I think I'm going to bring that down just a little more at frame 100.
So it comes down like this.
Let's try that
and maybe he dips down a bit between frame 100 and frame 180 maybe 140.
He can dip down just a little bit as he's coming forward.
Let's try that and I'll hit the play.
So he comes down into the scene.
And his back up just a bit and then drops.
I don't think the timing is quite right on that.
We'll have to keep working on it.
But this is a general process I'll be using blocking out the main broad animation first and then going
in and adjusting for the smaller movements the smaller details.
So in the next video we'll work on fine tuning the animation some.